README.md, before:

# Neocortex  🧠

Neocortex is a tool to connect your cognitive service with your web services and communication channels.

The main goal of neocortex is offers a reliable and modern API to connect any kind of cognitive service* with any communication channel**. 

*Currently neocortex offers only two cognitive services: Watson and a simple Useless box as dummy service, you can collaborate to implement another cognitive service like DialogFlow or Amazon Lex, later I'm going to document how to implement this services but you can read the source code to understand how to.

**Like cognitive services, I could only implement only two channels: Facebook Messenger and a simple Terminal chat (very simple to emulate a chat in your terminal), if you want you can collaborate implementing other channels like Slack, Whatsapp or Gmail, for example.

*🚧 Neocortex is work in progress, it pretends to be a big collaborative project*

###  TODO
- [x] Think the paradigm and write the first types of neocortex.

- [x] Describe a Cognitive Service interface (`type CognitiveService interface`)

- [x] Describe a Communication channel interface (`type CommunicationChannel interface`)

- [x] Implement the Watson cognitive service 

- [x] Implement the Facebook channel

- [x] Implement persistence contexts and dialog sessions

- [x] Implement analytics reports

- [x] MongoDB repository driver

- [ ] Write unit tests // working on

- [ ] Make an iteration of the Communication channel's architecture 

- [ ] Think more in the Cognitive's orientation (paradigm, architecture, etc)

- [ ] Improve the neocortex engine

- [ ] Write the Gmail channel implementation

- [ ] Write the Dialog flow service implementation

- [ ] Improve facebook messenger API

- [ ] Document more

- [ ] Document more more!


## Install

Install with:

```go get -u github.com/bregydoc/neocortex```

Currently, neocortex has 2 implementations of Cognitive Services (Useless-box created by me and Watson Assistant based on the [watson official API v2](https://github.com/watson-developer-cloud/go-sdk)) and 2 implementations of Communication Channels (Terminal based UI written by me and Facebook Messenger forked from [Facebook-messenger API](https://github.com/mileusna/facebook-messenger) by [mileusna](https://github.com/mileusna)).

### Basic Example

```go
package main

import (
	neo "github.com/bregydoc/neocortex"
	"github.com/bregydoc/neocortex/channels/terminal"
	"github.com/bregydoc/neocortex/cognitive/uselessbox"
	"github.com/bregydoc/neocortex/repositories/boltdb"
)

// Example of use useless box with terminal channel
func main() {
	box := uselessbox.NewCognitive()
	term := terminal.NewChannel(nil)

	repo, err  := boltdb.New("neocortex.db")
	if err != nil {
		panic(err)
	}
	
	engine, err := neo.New(repo, box, term)
	if err != nil {
		panic(err)
	}

	engine.ResolveAny(term, func(in *neo.Input, out *neo.Output, response neo.OutputResponse) error {
		out.AddTextResponse("-----Watermark-----")
		return response(out)
	})

	if err = engine.Run(); err != nil {
		panic(err)
	}
}

```
You can see more examples [here](https://github.com/bregydoc/neocortex/tree/master/examples).

## Paradigm

Neocortex is like a middleware with a mux, with it you can catch your message input, pass to your cognitive service, inflate or modify them and respond.

### Concepts

1. **Cognitive Service**

   Represents any service that decodes and find intents and entities in a human message. In neocortex, this is described by a simple interface.

   ```go
   type CognitiveService interface {
      CreateNewContext(c *context.Context, info neocortex.PersonInfo) *neocortex.Context
      GetProtoResponse(in *neocortex.Input) (*neocortex.Output, error)
   }
   ```

   you can see the implementation of a [Useless box](https://github.com/bregydoc/neocortex/tree/master/cognitive/uselessbox) or [Watson Assistant](https://github.com/bregydoc/neocortex/tree/master/cognitive/watson).

2. **Communication Channel**

   A Communication Channel is any human interface where a person can to send a message and receive a response. Currently, I think we need to work more in the paradigm behind Communication channels. In neocortex a communication channel is described by the following interface:

   ```go
   type CommunicationChannel interface {
      RegisterMessageEndpoint(handler neocortex.MiddleHandler) error
      ToHear() error
      GetContextFabric() neocortex.ContextFabric
      SetContextFabric(fabric neocortex.ContextFabric)
      OnNewContextCreated(callback func(c *neocortex.Context))
   }
   ```

   Please, read how to are implemented the [Terminal channel](https://github.com/bregydoc/neocortex/tree/master/channels/terminal) or [Facebook Messenger Channel](https://github.com/bregydoc/neocortex/tree/master/channels/facebook).

3. **Context**

   Neocortex's Context represents a "session" or "dialog" with a human, it contains essential information about the person with we're a conversation.

   ```go
   // Context represent the context of one conversation
   type Context struct {
      Context   *context.Context // go native context implementation
      SessionID string           
      Person    neocortex.PersonInfo             
      Variables map[string]interface{} //conversation context variables
   }
   ```

4. **Input**

   An input is a message input, that's all. Input has a specified type and in the neocortex is a struct:

   ```go
   type Input struct {
      Context  *neocortex.Context
      Data     neocortex.InputData
      Entities []neocortex.Entity
      Intents  []neocortex.Intent
   }
   ```

   Intents and Entities define the message.

5. **Output**

   An output represents a response in a conversation, with this you can define the response to your communication channel (e.g. facebook messenger) and if your channel allows you can respond different types of response (e.g. Image, Audio,  Attachment, etc).

   ```go
   type Output struct {
      Context      *neocortex.Context
      Entities     []neocortex.Entity
      Intents      []neocortex.Intent
      VisitedNodes []*neocortex.DialogNode
      Logs         []*neocortex.LogMessage
      Responses    []neocortex.Response // A list of responses
   }
   
   type Response struct {
       IsTyping bool
       Type     neocortex.ResponseType
       Value    interface{}
   }
   ```

6. **Engine**

   This is the core of neocortex it can to connect and manage your Cognitive service and your Communication channels. the engine has different methods for intercept a message and modifies it.

   ```go
   // Create a New neocortex Engine
   func New(cognitive CognitiveService, channels ...CommunicationChannel) (*Engine, error) {}
   
   // Register a new resolver, you need a matcher
   func (engine *Engine) Resolve(channel CommunicationChannel, matcher Matcher, handler HandleResolver) {}
   
   // Maatcher
   type Matcher struct {
       Entity Match
       Intent Match
       AND    *Matcher
       OR     *Matcher
   }
   // Match
   type Match struct {
       Is         string
       Confidence float64
   }
   ```

   

7. **Resolver**
    
    This is the core of the neocortex paradigm, with this you can intercept a message and modify or only bypass it. You need to pass a Matcher who is used to match with your message inputs, you can see below how looks like a Matcher struct. Above you can see two examples of a matcher:
    
    ```go
    // match if the input has a Regard or Goodbye intents 
    match := neo.Matcher{Intent: neo.Match{Is: "REGARD"}, OR: &neo.Matcher{Intent: neo.Match{Is: "GOODBYE"}}}
    
    // match if the input is an insult intent and has a bad_word entity
    match := neo.Matcher{
     Intent: neo.Match{Is:"INSULT", Confidence: 0.8}, 
     AND: &neo.Matcher{
       Entity: neo.Match{
         Is: "bad_word",
       },
     },
    }
    ```
    
    Register a new resolver is simple, see the following example above
    
    ```go
    match := neo.Matcher{Intent: neo.Match{Is:"HELLO", Confidence: 0.8}}
    engine.Resolve(fb, match, func(in *neo.Input, out *neo.Output, response neo.OutputResponse) error {
      out.AddTextResponse("Powered by neocortex")
      return response(out)
    })
    ```
    
    You can make another type of Resolves.
    
    ```go
    func (engine *Engine) ResolveAny(channel CommunicationChannel, handler HandleResolver) {}
    func (engine *Engine) Resolve(channel CommunicationChannel, matcher Matcher, handler HandleResolver) {}
    func (engine *Engine) ResolveMany(channels []CommunicationChannel, matcher Matcher, handler HandleResolver) {}
    func (engine *Engine) ResolveManyAny(channels []CommunicationChannel, handler HandleResolver) {}
    ```



🚧 Work in progress documentation, if you want to help, only send me an email.


![love open source](https://github.com/bregydoc/torioux-hands/raw/master/I_love_opensource.png)

Commit message:

migrating to minskylab and upgrading go version

README.md, after:

# Neocortex  🧠

Neocortex is a tool to connect your cognitive service with your web services and communication channels.

The main goal of neocortex is offers a reliable and modern API to connect any kind of cognitive service* with any communication channel**. 

*Currently neocortex offers only two cognitive services: Watson and a simple Useless box as dummy service, you can collaborate to implement another cognitive service like DialogFlow or Amazon Lex, later I'm going to document how to implement this services but you can read the source code to understand how to.

**Like cognitive services, I could only implement only two channels: Facebook Messenger and a simple Terminal chat (very simple to emulate a chat in your terminal), if you want you can collaborate implementing other channels like Slack, Whatsapp or Gmail, for example.

*🚧 Neocortex is work in progress, it pretends to be a big collaborative project*

###  TODO
- [x] Think the paradigm and write the first types of neocortex.

- [x] Describe a Cognitive Service interface (`type CognitiveService interface`)

- [x] Describe a Communication channel interface (`type CommunicationChannel interface`)

- [x] Implement the Watson cognitive service 

- [x] Implement the Facebook channel

- [x] Implement persistence contexts and dialog sessions

- [x] Implement analytics reports

- [x] MongoDB repository driver

- [ ] Write unit tests // working on

- [ ] Make an iteration of the Communication channel's architecture 

- [ ] Think more in the Cognitive's orientation (paradigm, architecture, etc)

- [ ] Improve the neocortex engine

- [ ] Write the Gmail channel implementation

- [ ] Write the Dialog flow service implementation

- [ ] Improve facebook messenger API

- [ ] Document more

- [ ] Document more more!


## Install

Install with:

```go get -u github.com/minskylab/neocortex```

Currently, neocortex has 2 implementations of Cognitive Services (Useless-box created by me and Watson Assistant based on the [watson official API v2](https://github.com/watson-developer-cloud/go-sdk)) and 2 implementations of Communication Channels (Terminal based UI written by me and Facebook Messenger forked from [Facebook-messenger API](https://github.com/mileusna/facebook-messenger) by [mileusna](https://github.com/mileusna)).

### Basic Example

```go
package main

import (
	neo "github.com/minskylab/neocortex"
	"github.com/minskylab/neocortex/channels/terminal"
	"github.com/minskylab/neocortex/cognitive/uselessbox"
	"github.com/minskylab/neocortex/repositories/boltdb"
)

// Example of use useless box with terminal channel
func main() {
	box := uselessbox.NewCognitive()
	term := terminal.NewChannel(nil)

	repo, err  := boltdb.New("neocortex.db")
	if err != nil {
		panic(err)
	}
	
	engine, err := neo.New(repo, box, term)
	if err != nil {
		panic(err)
	}

	engine.ResolveAny(term, func(in *neo.Input, out *neo.Output, response neo.OutputResponse) error {
		out.AddTextResponse("-----Watermark-----")
		return response(out)
	})

	if err = engine.Run(); err != nil {
		panic(err)
	}
}

```
You can see more examples [here](https://github.com/minskylab/neocortex/tree/master/examples).

## Paradigm

Neocortex is like a middleware with a mux, with it you can catch your message input, pass to your cognitive service, inflate or modify them and respond.

### Concepts

1. **Cognitive Service**

   Represents any service that decodes and find intents and entities in a human message. In neocortex, this is described by a simple interface.

   ```go
   type CognitiveService interface {
      CreateNewContext(c *context.Context, info neocortex.PersonInfo) *neocortex.Context
      GetProtoResponse(in *neocortex.Input) (*neocortex.Output, error)
   }
   ```

   you can see the implementation of a [Useless box](https://github.com/minskylab/neocortex/tree/master/cognitive/uselessbox) or [Watson Assistant](https://github.com/minskylab/neocortex/tree/master/cognitive/watson).

2. **Communication Channel**

   A Communication Channel is any human interface where a person can to send a message and receive a response. Currently, I think we need to work more in the paradigm behind Communication channels. In neocortex a communication channel is described by the following interface:

   ```go
   type CommunicationChannel interface {
      RegisterMessageEndpoint(handler neocortex.MiddleHandler) error
      ToHear() error
      GetContextFabric() neocortex.ContextFabric
      SetContextFabric(fabric neocortex.ContextFabric)
      OnNewContextCreated(callback func(c *neocortex.Context))
   }
   ```

   Please, read how to are implemented the [Terminal channel](https://github.com/minskylab/neocortex/tree/master/channels/terminal) or [Facebook Messenger Channel](https://github.com/minskylab/neocortex/tree/master/channels/facebook).

3. **Context**

   Neocortex's Context represents a "session" or "dialog" with a human, it contains essential information about the person with we're a conversation.

   ```go
   // Context represent the context of one conversation
   type Context struct {
      Context   *context.Context // go native context implementation
      SessionID string           
      Person    neocortex.PersonInfo             
      Variables map[string]interface{} //conversation context variables
   }
   ```

4. **Input**

   An input is a message input, that's all. Input has a specified type and in the neocortex is a struct:

   ```go
   type Input struct {
      Context  *neocortex.Context
      Data     neocortex.InputData
      Entities []neocortex.Entity
      Intents  []neocortex.Intent
   }
   ```

   Intents and Entities define the message.

5. **Output**

   An output represents a response in a conversation, with this you can define the response to your communication channel (e.g. facebook messenger) and if your channel allows you can respond different types of response (e.g. Image, Audio,  Attachment, etc).

   ```go
   type Output struct {
      Context      *neocortex.Context
      Entities     []neocortex.Entity
      Intents      []neocortex.Intent
      VisitedNodes []*neocortex.DialogNode
      Logs         []*neocortex.LogMessage
      Responses    []neocortex.Response // A list of responses
   }
   
   type Response struct {
       IsTyping bool
       Type     neocortex.ResponseType
       Value    interface{}
   }
   ```

6. **Engine**

   This is the core of neocortex it can to connect and manage your Cognitive service and your Communication channels. the engine has different methods for intercept a message and modifies it.

   ```go
   // Create a New neocortex Engine
   func New(cognitive CognitiveService, channels ...CommunicationChannel) (*Engine, error) {}
   
   // Register a new resolver, you need a matcher
   func (engine *Engine) Resolve(channel CommunicationChannel, matcher Matcher, handler HandleResolver) {}
   
   // Maatcher
   type Matcher struct {
       Entity Match
       Intent Match
       AND    *Matcher
       OR     *Matcher
   }
   // Match
   type Match struct {
       Is         string
       Confidence float64
   }
   ```

   

7. **Resolver**
    
    This is the core of the neocortex paradigm, with this you can intercept a message and modify or only bypass it. You need to pass a Matcher who is used to match with your message inputs, you can see below how looks like a Matcher struct. Above you can see two examples of a matcher:
    
    ```go
    // match if the input has a Regard or Goodbye intents 
    match := neo.Matcher{Intent: neo.Match{Is: "REGARD"}, OR: &neo.Matcher{Intent: neo.Match{Is: "GOODBYE"}}}
    
    // match if the input is an insult intent and has a bad_word entity
    match := neo.Matcher{
     Intent: neo.Match{Is:"INSULT", Confidence: 0.8}, 
     AND: &neo.Matcher{
       Entity: neo.Match{
         Is: "bad_word",
       },
     },
    }
    ```
    
    Register a new resolver is simple, see the following example above
    
    ```go
    match := neo.Matcher{Intent: neo.Match{Is:"HELLO", Confidence: 0.8}}
    engine.Resolve(fb, match, func(in *neo.Input, out *neo.Output, response neo.OutputResponse) error {
      out.AddTextResponse("Powered by neocortex")
      return response(out)
    })
    ```
    
    You can make another type of Resolves.
    
    ```go
    func (engine *Engine) ResolveAny(channel CommunicationChannel, handler HandleResolver) {}
    func (engine *Engine) Resolve(channel CommunicationChannel, matcher Matcher, handler HandleResolver) {}
    func (engine *Engine) ResolveMany(channels []CommunicationChannel, matcher Matcher, handler HandleResolver) {}
    func (engine *Engine) ResolveManyAny(channels []CommunicationChannel, handler HandleResolver) {}
    ```



🚧 Work in progress documentation, if you want to help, only send me an email.


![love open source](https://github.com/bregydoc/torioux-hands/raw/master/I_love_opensource.png)
